Another typical task connected to 3D medical imaging is called 3D reconstruction.
As we have seen,
images in the 3D imaging modalities are acquired in slices.
A slice consists of pixels in a 3D space.
A pixel that has a location in third dimension is called the voxel.
3D reconstruction refers to the production of 3D voxel image from a set of 2D slices,
like in this beautiful reconstruction of
an abdominal CT scan with a contrast media on that we can see on the right in this slide.
One important thing to keep in mind,
as we discuss 3D reconstruction of medical images,
is the distinction between the surface,
or polygon meshes, and volume meshes.
Essentially, in many 3D computer applications,
like games and CAD software,
3D objects are build by placing a set of points in
3D space and then connecting them with colored polygons,
which are then textured and you get these beautiful 3D models.
Such object representation as sparse collection of points and
polygons that connects them in 3D space is called a surface mesh.
Another way of representing a 3D object though,
involves storing information about every single voxel that the object consists of,
and then displaying the collection of these colored voxels on the screen.
This method could be used when you have
a dense collection of points with high spatial resolution.
As you might have guessed, most medical 3D visualizations are done using volume meshes.
This is an important thing to keep in mind as,
for example, PyTorch has recently released PyTorch3D,
which is aimed though at improving your experience when working with 3D meshes,
but not quite touches on the voxel volumes.
Some methods for 3D medical image rendering
do involve though connecting voxels with polygons,
but that will be getting into the field of photo-realistic medical image rendering,
which is out of scope for this lesson.
But at the same time, it's very interesting,
and we'll post some links to nice papers at the end of this section.